Next, let's learn more about
Kubernetes Control
Plane Security.
In GKE, all the master components
such as the API server,
etcd database, and Controller
Manager are managed by Google.
Each cluster has its own
root Certificate Authority,
(CA) for short.
An internal Google service
manages the root keys for the CA.
Secure communications
between the master
and nodes in a cluster,
relies on the shared
root of trust
provided by the certificates
issued by the CA.
GKE uses a separate
per cluster CA to
provide certificates for the
etcd databases within a cluster.
You don't have to do
anything to turn on
this feature, it's automatic.
Remember kubelets, which were
the primary Kubernetes
agents on the nodes?
The Kubernetes API server
and the kubelets
use secured network
communications protocols,
namely TLS and SSH when they
communicate with each other.
They use certificates
issued by the clusters
root CA to support
those protocols.
Because separate CA's are used
for each separate cluster,
a compromised CA of one cluster
cannot be used to
compromise other clusters.
When a new node of
a Kubernetes cluster is created,
the node is injected
with a shared secret
as part of its creation.
This secret is then
used by its kubelet to
submit certificate
signing requests
to the cluster root CA.
That way, it can get
client certificates
when the node is created,
and new certificates
when they need
to be renewed or rotated.
Kubelets use these
client certificates to
communicate securely
with the API server.
Note that the secret
can be accessed by
pods and by extension
their containers,
unless metadata
concealment is enabled.
I'll tell you more about
metadata concealment in a minute.
It's essential that these
credentials are rotated
periodically to improve
the security posture
of your cluster and
limit the impact of
a potential security breach
that can compromise credentials.
So how often should you ever take
credentials? Well,
it's a trade off.
If a cluster manages
high-value assets,
you probably want to
rotate credentials often.
But whenever you
do, the clusters
kube-apiserver is unavailable for
a short period of time.
So you need to make sure
that that trade-off
works for your organization's
security policies.
You'll learn how
to manually rotate
the credentials used by
the API server and clients
during a lab activity.
Note that you can't manually
rotate the etcd certificates
in GKE since they are
managed entirely by Google.
Let's look at an overview
of the rotation process.
The process starts by
creating a new IP address for
the cluster master along with
its existing IP address.
New credentials are issued
to the control plane.
Note that the API
server will not be
available during this period
although pods continue to run.
After the master is reconfigured,
the nodes are
automatically updated by
GKE to use the new IP
and credentials.
This causes GKE to
also automatically
upgrade the node version to
the closest supported version.
All of your API clients
outside the cluster
must also be updated to
use the new credentials.
Rotation must be completed
for the cluster master to start
serving with the new IP address
and new credentials,
and remove the old IP address
and old credentials.
If the rotation is not
completed manually,
GKE will automatically complete
the rotation after seven days.
Note that you can also rotate
the IP address for your cluster.
This essentially goes through
the same process because
their certificates
must be renewed
when the master IP
address is changed,
but with different commands
as shown here.
In these example, name
refers to the cluster name.
Pods can access the metadata
of the nodes that
they're running on,
such as the node secret that
is used for node configuration.
If a pod is compromised,
this could potentially be
used in unintended ways.
To prevent such exposure,
there are a few steps
that you can take.
First, you should
always configure
the Cloud IAM service account
for the node with
minimal permissions.
Don't confuse the
Google service account
with the Kurbenetes
Service account.
This is the Cloud IAM
service account
used by the node VM itself.
Don't use the
compute.instances.get
permission through
a service account,
compute instance admin role,
or any custom roles.
Omitting this permission
blocks holders
of the role from
getting metadata on
GKE nodes by making
direct Compute Engine API
calls to those nodes.
The second step that
you should take is to
disable legacy metadata APIs.
Compute Engine API
endpoints using
versions 0.1 and V1 beta-1,
support querying of metadata.
The V1 APIs restrict
the retrieval of metadata.
Starting from GKE version 1.12,
the legacy Compute Engine
metadata endpoints are disabled
by default and with
earlier versions,
they can only be
disabled by creating
a new cluster or adding
a new node pool to
an existing cluster.
One further important
security step
is to enable metadata
concealment.
This is basically a firewall that
prevents pod from accessing
a nodes metadata.
It does this by
restricting access
to kube env which contains
kubelet credentials and
the virtual machines instance
identity token.
Note that this is a temporary
solution that will be
deprecated as better
security improvements
are developed in the future.
There's a link associated
with this lesson to
Google Cloud's documentation
on protecting cluster metadata.